hello and welcome to billiards basics
brought to you by Ozone billiards i'm bc
a recognize instructor James Roberts
today we're going to look at the pool
cue its parts and functions so let's get
to it
the tip the tip is typically made of
leather and can be soft medium or hard
consistency can be solid or layer layer
tip tips tend to keep their shape longer
although they tend to be more expensive
the tip is the most important factor in
determining your cue ball control it's
important to have proper curvature
typically the curvature of a nickel or a
dime next we have the ferrule which is
typically phenolic or ivory or can even
be wood the Faro provides a flat base in
which to attach the tip it also protects
the shaft from splitting the rest of the
cue is the shaft for the butt portion of
the cue we start with the joint and
that's what attaches to the shaft the
joint is typically phenolic or stainless
steel as you can see this one is
stainless steel tends to be sturdier but
does not have the same feel as a
phenolic joint the next portion of the
cue is the forearm and this is where
most of your decorative work is either
inlays or decals your more expensive
cues tend to have inlays of ivory and
various types of woods this is where the
majority of the cost of the cube is
contained next you have the wrap which
is typically Irish linen can be leather
or there may be none at all the purpose
of the wrap is to absorb moisture from
the grip hand and behind that you have
the butt sleeve which may contain more
decorative work and inlays it is also on
the inside hollow wear wait bolts can be
placed or removed to adjust the weight
of the cue the typical q can weigh
anywhere from 18 to 21 ounces and that
the
we have the butt cap which is where you
access the the wait bolts and a rubber
bumper on the end protects the bottom of
the cue when it's being spit up so there
you have it the parts and functions of a
2-piece pool cue if you don't have one
you definitely should get one it's a key
part and consistently playing excellent
pool thanks for joining us today
I'm James Roberts until next time
Frozone billiards keep playing in the
zone